While memory is efficient for feeding our CPU's data,
we run into two problems.
The first problem with memory is that it's ephemeral.
We'd lose all the data in our memory every time we shut down our machines.
There simply isn't an option when you're holding onto
valuable data about your customers and business.
Secondly, memory is expensive.
So, most laptops only come with 8 gigs of memory.
Back in the late 90s,
when CPU speed starting to level off,
many companies invested in very expensive hardware with lots of memory.
One of the key strategies that set Google apart was bypassing
this expense by building distributed systems using commodity hardware.
Rather than relying on lots of memory,
Google leveraged long-term storage on cheap pre-used hardware.
Oh, and by the way,
if you didn't know a distributed system or cluster is
just a bunch of connected machines and these machines are usually called nodes.
Also, when I mentioned commodity hardware,
I'm talking about the computers that you and I would buy if we're on a tight budget.
Using distributed clusters of commodity hardware has become the industry standard.
Those are early systems at Google,
where the foundation for technologies like Spark.